# Q2. No Job history

### Context:

GlobalTech Solutions is a multinational company with thousands of employees spread across various departments.

The company's Human Resources (HR) department maintains a comprehensive database to manage employee information, including personal details, employment history, and departmental affiliations.

The HR department wants to identify new hires who haven't held any positions within the company yet.

### Problem Statement:

We want to find all employees who are not present in the job_history table. This indicates they haven't held any jobs previously within the company.

The result should include all columns from the employees table.
The result should to be sorted by employee_id in ascending order for easier reference.

### Note:

To get the details of the employee's previous jobs refer to the job_history table.
An employee is present in the job_history table if he/she has worked before.

## Solutions:

### Using ```LEFT JOIN```
```
select e.*
from employees e
left join job_history jh on jh.employee_id=e.employee_id
where jh.employee_id is null
order by e.employee_id asc;
```

- LEFT JOIN ... WHERE jh.employee_id IS NULL requires scanning both tables and filtering out NULL values.
- Slower on large datasets
- Uses index, but scans both tables

### Using ```NOT EXISTS```
```
SELECT e.*
FROM employees e
WHERE NOT EXISTS (
    SELECT 1 
    FROM job_history jh 
    WHERE jh.employee_id = e.employee_id
)
ORDER BY e.employee_id ASC;
```

- NOT EXISTS stops scanning as soon as a match is found, making it more efficient.
- NOT EXISTS explicitly states the intention: "Find employees who do NOT exist in job_history."
- Avoids unnecessary NULL checks
- Faster than left join
- Stops scanning early once a match is found

## Final Thoughts:
- LEFT JOIN works fine, but if you're dealing with large datasets, use NOT EXISTS for better performance.